# Transfer-learning-for-classification-of-commercial-logos-in-images
Determining the type of commercial brand from an image with its graphical logo is done here. To develop a model for this purpose, the concept of transfer learning is used. A pre-trained model, namely the InceptionV3 model, serves as a base model that has already learned certain features from images. A new output layer is added to the base model and learns how to use existing features in order to recognize the logo types. This layer is trained by a new dataset derived from the Flickr Logos 27 dataset (http://image.ntua.gr/iva/datasets/flickr_logos/ . The latter contains 3 sets of images and one of them, the so-called training set, is used here. It is preprocessed to organize the images from 10 classes (logo types) into folders, which allows for the easy loading of data (the starting point of the code available here). 30 images are available for each class, whereas 20% of them are used for validation of the model and are not included in training. 

The logo classification model includes: a data augmentation layer (that applies rotations, zooms, and horizontal and vertical flips of the images) to prevent overfitting, a preprocessing layer to adjust pixel values in the images to be in line with the pre-trained model, a Dropout layer also to prevent overfitting, and, finally, the output layer that comes with 10 neurons (as the number of classes) and a softmax activation function. As a loss function, Categorial-cross-entropy is used. Additionally to training of the output layer, the base model is also trained (fine-tuning) with a low learning rate. The model achieves accuracy of 87% in training and of 82% in validation.

To evaluate the model performance, a confusion matrix is plotted and shows accurate predictions for all classes with some mismatches (corresponding to the accuracy score). The Citroen logo has the highest number of false positives (the lowest precision), a total of 4 false positives (3 for Ford and 1 for Apple) out of a sum of 8 true and false positives (see the column of Citroen in the confusion matrix). The Ford logo has the highest number of false negatives (lowest recall), a total of 4 (3 for Citroen, 1 for BWM and 1 for Apple) out of a sum of 7 true positives and false negatives (see the row of Ford in the confusion matrix). 
